README.md, before:

# xk6-output-influxdb
k6 extension for [InfluxDB v2](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2.0), it adds the support for the latest `v2` version and the compatibility API for v1.8+.

#### **Why is this output not directly part of `k6` core?**
The `k6` core already supports the [InfluxDB v1](https://k6.io/docs/results-visualization/influxdb-+-grafana) so the natural feeling would be to do the same for the `v2`. Unfortunately, the `v2` has introduced some breaking changes in the core parts of the API. This would make it difficult to support both versions without taking a bunch of compromises for maintaining the retro-compatibility or introducing breaking changes in the current user experience of the k6's InfluxDB output, with a high probability to create more confusion for k6's users. For this main reason, the `k6` development team has decided to create a new and independent extension for InfluxDB v2.

## How to use

To build a `k6` binary with this extension, first ensure you have the prerequisites:

- [Go toolchain](https://go101.org/article/go-toolchain.html)
- Git
- [xk6](https://github.com/grafana/xk6#install)

1. Build with `xk6`:

```bash
xk6 build --with github.com/grafana/xk6-output-influxdb
```

This will result in a `k6` binary in the current directory.

2. Run with the just built `k6` binary:

```bash
K6_INFLUXDB_ORGANIZATION=<insert-here-org-name> \
K6_INFLUXDB_BUCKET=<insert-here-bucket-name> \
K6_INFLUXDB_TOKEN=<insert-here-valid-token> \
./k6 run -o xk6-influxdb=http://localhost:8086 <script.js>
```

## Configuration

Options for fine-grained control for flushing and connections.


| ENV | Default | Description |
|-----|---------|-------------|
| K6_INFLUXDB_ORGANIZATION      |                       | The [Organization](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2.0/reference/glossary/#organization). |
| K6_INFLUXDB_BUCKET            |                       | The [Bucket](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2.0/reference/glossary/#bucket). |
| K6_INFLUXDB_TOKEN             |                       | The [Token](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2.0/reference/glossary/#token). |
| K6_INFLUXDB_ADDR              | http://localhost:8086 | The address of the instance. |
| K6_INFLUXDB_PUSH_INTERVAL     | 1s | The flush's frequency of the `k6` metrics. |
| K6_INFLUXDB_CONCURRENT_WRITES | 4 | Number of concurrent requests for flushing data. It is useful when a request takes more than the expected time (more than flush interval). |
| K6_INFLUXDB_TAGS_AS_FIELDS    | vu:int,iter:int,url | A comma-separated string to set `k6` metrics as non-indexable fields (instead of tags). An optional type can be specified using :type as in vu:int will make the field integer. The possible field types are int, bool, float and string, which is the default. Example: vu:int,iter:int,url:string,event_time:int. |
| K6_INFLUXDB_INSECURE          | false | When `true`, it will skip `https` certificate verification. |
| K6_INFLUXDB_PRECISION         | 1ns | The timestamp [Precision](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2.0/reference/glossary/#precision). |

### Compatibility API
The v2 includes a [InfluxDB v1.8+ compatibility API](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2.0/reference/api/influxdb-1x) that adds endpoints for communicating with an InfluxDB v1.

>[Client API usage differences summary](https://github.com/influxdata/influxdb-client-go#influxdb-18-api-compatibility):
>
>    1. Use the form username:password for an authentication token. Example: my-user:my-password. Use an empty string ("") if the server doesn't require authentication.
>    2. The organization parameter is not used. Use an empty string ("") where necessary.
>    3. Use the form database/retention-policy where a bucket is required. Skip retention policy if the default retention policy should be used. Examples: telegraf/autogen, telegraf.

Commit message:

Update Docker environment and instructions

README.md, after:

# xk6-output-influxdb
k6 extension for [InfluxDB v2](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2.0), it adds the support for the latest `v2` version and the compatibility API for v1.8+.

#### **Why is this output not directly part of `k6` core?**
The `k6` core already supports the [InfluxDB v1](https://k6.io/docs/results-visualization/influxdb-+-grafana) so the natural feeling would be to do the same for the `v2`. Unfortunately, the `v2` has introduced some breaking changes in the core parts of the API. This would make it difficult to support both versions without taking a bunch of compromises for maintaining the retro-compatibility or introducing breaking changes in the current user experience of the k6's InfluxDB output, with a high probability to create more confusion for k6's users. For this main reason, the `k6` development team has decided to create a new and independent extension for InfluxDB v2.

# Install

To build a `k6` binary with this extension, first ensure you have the prerequisites:

- [Go toolchain](https://go101.org/article/go-toolchain.html)
- Git
- [xk6](https://github.com/grafana/xk6#install)

1. Build with `xk6`:

```bash
xk6 build --with github.com/grafana/xk6-output-influxdb
```

This will result in a `k6` binary in the current directory.

2. Run with the just built `k6` binary:

```bash
K6_INFLUXDB_ORGANIZATION=<insert-here-org-name> \
K6_INFLUXDB_BUCKET=<insert-here-bucket-name> \
K6_INFLUXDB_TOKEN=<insert-here-valid-token> \
./k6 run -o xk6-influxdb=http://localhost:8086 <script.js>
```

**Using Docker**

This [Dockerfile](./Dockerfile) builds a docker image with the k6 binary.

## Configuration

Options for fine-grained control for flushing and connections.


| ENV | Default | Description |
|-----|---------|-------------|
| K6_INFLUXDB_ORGANIZATION      |                       | The [Organization](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2.0/reference/glossary/#organization). |
| K6_INFLUXDB_BUCKET            |                       | The [Bucket](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2.0/reference/glossary/#bucket). |
| K6_INFLUXDB_TOKEN             |                       | The [Token](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2.0/reference/glossary/#token). |
| K6_INFLUXDB_ADDR              | http://localhost:8086 | The address of the instance. |
| K6_INFLUXDB_PUSH_INTERVAL     | 1s | The flush's frequency of the `k6` metrics. |
| K6_INFLUXDB_CONCURRENT_WRITES | 4 | Number of concurrent requests for flushing data. It is useful when a request takes more than the expected time (more than flush interval). |
| K6_INFLUXDB_TAGS_AS_FIELDS    | vu:int,iter:int,url | A comma-separated string to set `k6` metrics as non-indexable fields (instead of tags). An optional type can be specified using :type as in vu:int will make the field integer. The possible field types are int, bool, float and string, which is the default. Example: vu:int,iter:int,url:string,event_time:int. |
| K6_INFLUXDB_INSECURE          | false | When `true`, it will skip `https` certificate verification. |
| K6_INFLUXDB_PRECISION         | 1ns | The timestamp [Precision](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2.0/reference/glossary/#precision). |


# Docker-compose

This repo includes a [docker-compose.yml](./docker-compose.yml) file that starts InfluxDB, Grafana and k6. This is just a quick to setup to show the usage, for real use case you might want to deploy outside of docker, use volumes and probably update versions.

Clone the repo to get get started and follow these steps: 

1. Put your k6 scripts in the `scripts` directory or use the `http_2.js` example.

2. Start the docker compose environments.
   
	```shell
	docker-compose up -d
	```

3. Use the k6 Docker image to run the k6 script and send metrics to the InfluxDB started on the previous step. 
 
	```shell
	docker-compose run k6 -<scripts/http_2.js 
	```

4. Visit http://localhost:3000 to view results in Grafana. This repository includes a basic dashboard.


### Compatibility API
The v2 includes a [InfluxDB v1.8+ compatibility API](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2.0/reference/api/influxdb-1x) that adds endpoints for communicating with an InfluxDB v1.

>[Client API usage differences summary](https://github.com/influxdata/influxdb-client-go#influxdb-18-api-compatibility):
>
>    1. Use the form username:password for an authentication token. Example: my-user:my-password. Use an empty string ("") if the server doesn't require authentication.
>    2. The organization parameter is not used. Use an empty string ("") where necessary.
>    3. Use the form database/retention-policy where a bucket is required. Skip retention policy if the default retention policy should be used. Examples: telegraf/autogen, telegraf.
